# Lee Tagg

My name is Lee Tagg. The main thing I’m interested in is a sustainable and aspirational version of humanity and I can’t really understand why we don’t have that yet. I share my perspectives here because I believe they are valuable. I believe in unconditional kindness and being compassionate to all people. A lot of what I think about is the nitty gritty of how to arrive at aspirational humanity. I find it peculiar that it’s not simply a matter of fixing problems, making changes and stepping into it. I believe aspirational humanity is possible, and we can step into it if we believe we can.

I have an Autism Spectrum Disorder (or Differences?) and ADHD. This has impacted the relationships I have, and my ability to form and maintain relationships. Basically I have no friends, identity, in-group or predefined cultural allegiance. I wouldn’t even know where to begin maintaining real friendships. For most of my life I was pretty bitter about it, masked, drank, pretended to fit-in, and did a pretty poor job of hiding my inadequacies. Now I’ve come to terms with it and I really don’t want to make friends with you anymore, or participate in any social norms such as drinking or pretending to fit in but I do love humanity, and I do love our planet and I do want biological and intelligent life on this planet to succeed.

I do see the irony in the fact that I care about humanity yet have very little capacity to connect with others in it. The joke is on me, but it’s a good joke. I actually really love this aspect of my life and personality.

Since learning how to set boundaries, people with narcissistic patterns of behavior have a huge repulsion to my existence. I’ve discovered the best way to deal with that and the social disconnect I experience is to simply speak up about my life, perspectives and opinions. Doing so helps to negate narcissistic or harmful codependent dynamics and, in abstract, I’ve realized boundaries are good for all people not just autistic loners and one of the reasons people don’t learn to set boundaries is because of the codependent dynamics they are institutionalized into and it’s important to share things like this so that more people can free themselves from their living hell.

I hope my perspectives are meaningful and add a small light for humanity and the future of our planet. I will make mistakes in everything I do and I will do my best to fix them. Unconditional kindness should be our underwriter and compassion our insurance policy. If we choose to take good care of it, humanity will thrive.

<iframe src="https://leetagg.substack.com/embed" width="480" height="320" style="border:1px solid #EEE; background:white;" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>